# HST COMBO

## Introduction
This repository is built for the social navigation project at fluent robotics lab at the University of Michigan Robot Institute. 

In this repository, we have three packages, including `hst_node`, `skeleton_extractor(Multi-human Skeleton RGBD)` and `skeleton_interfaces`. NOTE, their own github repo are updated to the latest, so please use the packages here in this repo.

 * [skeleton_extractor](https://github.com/fluentrobotics/Multi-human_Skeleton_RGBD): 
 Branch `ros2_humble` is developed in Ubuntu22(focal) ROS2 humble to track human and skeleton by YOLOv8 and kalman filters. The skeleton_extractor generates 3D human skeleton data from RGB-D camera and publish skeleton data in a node through message/interface `skeleton_interfaces`.
 * [skeleton_interfaces](https://github.com/AlfredMoore/skeleton_interfaces): 
    * MultiHumanSkeleton
        * std_msgs/Header header: common ROS message header
        * HumanSkeleton[] multi_human_skeleton: a list of HumanSkeleton
    * HumanSkeleton
        * uint32 human_id: human id generated by YOLO
        * geometry_msgs/Point32 human_center: human geometrical center
        * geometry_msgs/Point32[] keypoint_data: human skeleton data
        * bool[] keypoint_mask: True -> valid keypoint, False -> invalid/meaningless keypoint
 * [hst_node](https://github.com/AlfredMoore/hst_node):
 The hst_node is built to load skeleton data in a deque then the deque will generate a time-series horizon, including historical data and future predition(np.nan). The Human Scene Transformer loads the data array from deque and make human trajectory prediction in a horizon. 
    * horizon total length: 19 step
    * history length: 6 step
    * presence: 1 step
    * futrue: 12 step
    * timestep: 1/3 second per step

## Get Started

### Dependency Requirement
 * Ubuntu22.04, [docker](https://github.com/fluentrobotics/ros-devcontainer/tree/humble-cu118) is highly recommend. Select the repository branch according to your requirement.
 * Python3.10, `peotry` is highly recommend as the python virtual environment management tool. The `poetry` will be installed automatically in the dockerfile. `Anaconda3` is not recommended because there might be some conflict between `ROS` packages and `Anaconda3` env.
 * ROS2 Humble
 * Python dependet packages are shown in `pyproject.toml` in `hst_node` and `Multi-human_Skeleton_RGBD`. You can use `poetry` to install them.
    * `poetry shell` to start poetry integrated shell, then `poetry install` to install dependecies and virtual environment automatically.

### Run
If you are using `FLUENT-LAB-11`, you do not have to configure the environment and can just go to the `Run` step.

 * Get into the virtual environment: 
 ```shell
 cd /path/to/ros-devcontainer
 ./enter-container.sh
 ```
 * Git clone or move this repo to your ROS2 workspace like `*/*_ws/HST_combo` and get into your ROS2 workspace `cd /path/to/workspace`.

 * Configuration



 * Compile and build(Optional):
 ```shell
 colcon build --pakcge-select hst_node skeleton_extractor skeleton_interface
 ```

 * Launch ros nodes:
 ```shell
 ros2 launch hst_node socialnav_core.launch
 ```
 The node will be waiting for the ROS bag topics or real-time ROS topics. 

 * Launch rviz:
 ```shell
 ros2 launch hst_node rviz.launch
 ```